Title: Jury

----

Meta-description: 

----

Builder: 

- 
  title: Expert Jury
  _fieldset: jury-title
- 
  name: Andreas Baltschun
  image: andreas.jpg
  text: >
    Andreas Baltschun went to college at
    Bauhaus Universität Weimar, majoring in
    media design. His works have been
    awarded several times, ran at numerous
    festivals like the Next Generation in
    Cannes, the Today Award of the
    Berlinale, the Max-Ophüls-Preis and the
    DOK Leipzig. His debut film „Für
    Elise“ was awarded the main price (The
    Art of Film Award 2012) at the
    “Festival of German Films”.
    Baltschun is an editor who puts emotion
    into the main focus of his work. It is
    the story that is being told, whether
    the result is fictional or non-fictional
    – 30 seconds or 30 hours long. He is a
    part-time lecturer in editing and
    montage at the University of Television
    and Film Munich.
  _fieldset: jury-member
- 
  name: Babette Hnup
  image: bh.jpg
  text: |
    She was born in Vienna and moved to Paris during her course of studies. The originally planned stay as an Au-Pair turned into 15 years in which she worked as a journalist for the German press. Love brought her back to Germany and she’s been living in Hamburg for five years now. In addition to her work as a freelanced journalist for the NDR, she works as an author and producer for other public TV stations and also for the production company freeeye.tv.
    
    Among other things, she was an author for the HR report “Mediensucht” (2015), as well as a producer for ZDF report series “Herr Eppert sucht” (2011/13). As a video journalist she makes and cuts film clips and image films and makes one short film a year, which she submits to various festivals. She does these things without a budget but with lots of passion.
  _fieldset: jury-member
- 
  name: Volker Traumann
  image: volker-traumann.jpg
  text: >
    Volker Traumann was born in 1967 in
    Erlangen und studied theatre pedagogy at
    the Universität der Künste Berlin.
    Since 1996 he’s been living in Bamberg
    and works in the fields of film, theatre
    and circus. As an actor and pedagogue
    for theatres he worked in the ensemble
    of the Landesbühne Oberfranken for
    several years. He now works as an
    independent actor and host. Since 2005
    he manages the ZIRKUS GIOVANNI in
    Bamberg and teaches courses in theatre,
    clowning, artistic and “Social
    circus”. After several years of film
    work with disadvantaged young people and
    his own film projects, he started
    working as a Festival Director of the
    Bamberger Kurzfilmtage in 2006.
  _fieldset: jury-member
- 
  title: Youth jury
  _fieldset: jury-title
- 
  name: Nina Katschmarek
  image: nina.jpg
  text: >
    My name is Nina and I am 16 years old. I
    am in 10th grade at Leuchtenburg
    Gymnasium in Kahla. During my spare time
    I like to do sports and listen to music.
    I’m interested in films and I think
    short films are very special. They are
    able to capture, to shock and to
    entertain people within a short period
    of time. The fascination is that you can
    express lots of things, like feelings,
    but also reach out to many people.
  _fieldset: jury-member
- 
  name: Lorenz Krieger
  image: lorenz.jpg
  text: >
    I am Lorenz, 17 years old and visit the
    Waldorfschule. For three years now
    I’ve been a member of the theatre in
    the youth club at Theaterhaus Jena and
    from this season on also at Stellwerk
    Weimar. I really like to watch good
    movies and especially enjoy movies of
    older directors like Hitchcock, Fellini,
    Buñuel and Truffaut. A few years ago I
    made some short films with friends of
    mine; today I’d rather watch them.
  _fieldset: jury-member
- 
  name: Nadja Sühnel
  image: nadja.jpg
  text: >
    My name is Nadja, I am 17 years old and
    in 12th grade at Jenaplanschule. I
    appreciate a good script the most;
    otherwise I am not very picky about the
    different movie genres. I like to engage
    myself into many genres. The thing I
    like about short films is the fact that
    you can take your time in creating
    moments that have to be cut out in other
    films because of their plots.
  _fieldset: jury-member